# Tilt::PDF

Integrates PDF generation into a Tilt flow for maxxed out ease of use.

Contrary to other solutions, all files will be rendered locally without relying
on a web server. It follows that even if used in a web server, no concurrent
requests are being made to render assets.

## Dependencies

This gem depends on PDFKit, which in turn requires `wkhtmltopdf`. It is
recommended to use the statically compiled version of the latter, as it is
built against a patched QT that supports more features.

## Usage as a Tilt template

Add `tilt-pdf` to your Gemfile. Also add any template engine you may optionally
want, such as `less` or `slim`.

A `foo` template is currently threefold:

- `foo.rpdf`: this file is a YAML file containing options pertaining to the PDF
  generation process, such as page size, orientation, metadata, support files,
  headers and footers. Some options are passed as is to PDFKit, and
  subsequently to `wkhtmltopdf`.
- `foo.html`: this document can be written in any template language you need
  (such as ERB or Slim), and the Tilt template resolution system via extension
  chaining will apply. Tilt will pass the render block to be yielded to this
  document.
- `foo.css`: this stylesheet can be written in any template language you need
  (such as Sass or Less), and the Tilt template resolution system via extension
  chaining will apply. Tilt will pass the block to be yielded to this
  template, so you'd rather not `yield` if you fancy using `.css.erb`.

The three files must currently be stored in the *same* directory.

Rendering is done the usual Tilt way:

```ruby
require 'tilt-pdf'

pdf = Tilt.new('foo.rpdf').render()
```

## The rpdf file

This file contains options. If empty, it is made to 'just work' as
summplemental files will be looked up according to its basename.

- `main`: document body, overriding the default derived from the basename.
- `footer` and `header`: html that will get used for (surprise!) header and
  footers.
- `stylesheets`: list of stylesheets to include (used for all html, incl.
  headers/footers). Defaults to one file from the basename.
- `javascripts`: list of javascripts to include (used for all html, incl.
  headers/footers). Defaults to one file from the basename.
- `pdfkit`: While a few PDFKit options are made available at the toplevel for
  convenience, this key passes all options as-is to PDFKit.

Example:

```
title: Foorever young
page-size: A4
orientation: landscape
grayscale: true
margin-left: 0
margin-right: 0
margin-top: 0
margin-bottom: 0
pdfkit:
    print-media-type: true
main: foorever_young.html.slim
stylesheets:
  - novel.css.less
  - common.css
javascripts:
  - page_numbering.js.coffee
footer: footer.html.slim
```

Filenames can be relative or absolute. When relative, they will be evaluated
as based from the rpdf file.

## Rails and ActionView integration

Starting with 0.10, this functionality has been split into its own gem. Use
[Tilt::PDF::Rails](https://github.com/lloeki/tilt-pdf-rails)
